All right.
So we've made a lot of progress with our container properties covered all of these here check mark.
Awesome.
Feel so much better now.
Next up we're going to start focusing on the properties that apply to the individual items individual
boxes.
In our case so we have some more control rather than just at the container level we have control over
individual things whatever those things are.
It looks like there's a lot more than there actually are.
Because these three are often combined and used with a shorthand flex.
So Flex allows you to control these three properties but I listed them separately because we are going
to talk about them individually.
So let's get started.
First up is a line self so a line self is just like a line items in that it allows you to figure out
how things should be aligned across the cross axis.
However it works on the individual basis so for an individual item.
So let me show you an example.
Here we have a line items set to flex start for the container.
So these four boxes are aligned to flex start along the cross axis.
But then I singled out box 2 and I said align self flex and and it's aligned to the end.
Because a flex and so it singles this one out.
So it's a way to override a line items but it works the same way the same values.
So we have like start flex and center and we also have baseline.
So there's another example in this case I centered all of them using a line items and then selected
box to and box 3 and said align self is flex start meaning that those start up top.
And the other two are centered along the cross axis and one more example.
In this case a line item is set to flex.
And so everything is aligned to the bottom and the spaces above.
But then I set box three to have align itself set to stretch.
So it takes up the entire space which by the way is the default.
If we hadn't set a line items to be flex and remember the default is stretch.
So let's hop decode pen and play around a little bit.
So as you can see here we've got nine of them and by default our line items is set to stretch.
Should we review.
Nothing happens.
So let's change it though a way from scratch and let's do Center.
OK so they're all centered but now what I can do is use a line self.
Let's pick about seven box seven and I'll just set a line south to be flex and perfect.
So it's aligned to the bottom there and let's do box for let's do three lucky number and we'll do a
line self and let's do flex start perfect.
So as you can see it allows us to override the value that we're applying to the container with a line
items.
So they're very very similar.
It's just a more specific version for an individual item rather than the blanket statement for the container
and everything inside of it.
So if I change this back to stretch I could just comment it out.
You can see that are two that we individually singled out are still doing what we want them to do.
So that's pretty much it to align itself if you're comfortable with those values center stretch flex
start flex and baseline that we've seen a couple of times now.
Same values that you can use just a different property name.
And if we just switch this over when you get rid of the height on my container for now and if I switch
this over to be a column.
Same thing applies to the default stretch as you can see.
Let's change that to the center.
So our cross axis goes from left to right in there centered here.
Except for three and seven which I called out individually.
Zoom way out.
There you go.
Totally worth it.
OK.
So that's it for a line self.